Thank you Dr. Croes for taking the time today to sit down with Phillips and I to chat about laser
authorectomy. Can you tell me a little bit about your practice?
Yeah, I'm a corner in an eventual finishing in Boston, Massachusetts. I've been on staff at the
Brigham Women's Hospital for about 15 years. Did my fellowship here? I've been joked with my wife
and me dying this job, but it'd been her long time. We run a pretty busy CTL complex PCI program.
A couple wonderful partners in a team of people that treat complex corner disease.
Excited to be here. Thanks for the invitation. Thank you.
Can you explain the advantages of laser authorectomy?
Yeah, so you know, we got laser initially as a CTO tool, but that I think really
readily able to understand the value of it in complex PCI in general.
So you know, the device from a supporting chip cases or complex PCI cases has a lot of value.
Some of the unique features of it are tunable. You can change the rate in the
fluency or the power of it. It can be, you can liaison on any wires. You're not married to an
authorectomy wire like you are with rotational authorectomy or overlapped rectomy. It's cool because
in bifurcation you can keep two wires down. A laser into one laser into another, which is difficult
to do with mechanical authorectomy devices. And you need to think about, there's minimal risk of
entrapment. You're hard to get a laser stuck like you might have wrote a bird. And so for that
reason we have applied it to many different types as we'll talk about, but I think you know,
it's grown to be an important part of our toolkit and complex PCI treatment.
Right. Can you describe the mechanism of action?
Yeah, so laser-highest three main mechanisms of action. The first is, you know, an ablative
capacity. Effectively it can vaporize tissue, changes, you know, material into atoms.
Additionally, one of the most important features especially for instant restnosis,
the second main mechanism of action is laser. It's kind of like light-paced lithotripsy.
When you laser in an arterial system, you get an acoustic mechanical energy wave.
The creasy shockwave is able to change the compliance and soften tissue, such as calcium.
And then the cavitation bubble is able to help a bleed and sort of, you know, soften
mixed morphology tissue. For us, really, we focus on the ablative capacity
and the acoustic mechanical mechanism as a ones which are really kind of focusing and using
a lot in cases that we treat patients.
Great. Can you talk a little bit about the laser workflow?
Yeah, so the workflow is, you know, for us, a complex PCI cases, you know, always follows the same,
you know, cadence. You know, good guide support. Make sure you, you know, go, you know,
into a gunfight, aren't with just a knife. So, getting supportive guides, understanding the
difficulty potentially the case ahead of time. That includes where we're accessing from,
what type of sheath, what type of guide, what shape a guide. And, you know, once we get a wire
across the region, we're really focused on using a traversal imaging to help guide our case planning.
And so, you know, utilization of laser in our practice, we use a lot of times for instant
recinosis for CTO work. And so, in an ISR case, you know, if a strength is failed, we're going
to try to determine what the best way to treat it is is wire down imaging catheter, often,
Ivys Cross or OCT across, understand what's happening. And then in a scenario where there's
indication for laser either, stensor, underexpand, or we want to oblate tissue,
well, then balloon a little bit to make some space. Laser with an appropriately size laser,
which is chosen based on the intravascular imaging. And go ahead and have the desired effect on
the lesion be, you know, change the compliance to help expand things. I help us to get through
difficult anatomy, which is hard to cross. And then balloon and stent in restent of we're going
to. And so, there really is kind of a very quick cadence of wire intravascular image to
decide what you need to do, apply the laser based on the mechanism that you're trying to harness
in terms of changing a plan for a blade tissue. And then stent, or balloon, or balloon and stent,
and then image on the back end to make sure we've got the desired effect to check our work.
Great, that actually led me to my next question. Can you just briefly discuss the laser
indications? And also, it's use in your practice. Yeah, so laser has a lot of indications,
which is both a good thing. It fits really broadly into our toolbox. It also can be confusing
for physicians. You know, you can use it in vingress. You can use it in instant restinosis. You can
use it to oblate throments. You can use it in CTO cases. We have a wire cross. And so, a little bit
of the sweet spot for our practice of where we use laser at the back end means kind of tied to the
const cases. If you're doing it, we're not a high-volume STEMI center. I do more CTOs than I personally
do STEMI isn't giving you. So if you sort of ask me where I'm using laser, it's in the kind of cases
that are the wheelhouse of what I'm doing every day. If you contrast that to say age, where they have,
a lot of laser use at ACS cases, they're often used to oblate throments. It's sort of deal with,
you know, deep-olking thromotic material. And our practice laser really has been adopted quite
readily by myself, my partner, in two places, in instant restinosis and in CTOs. And we use it in
these cases really as a function of, you know, trying to use the atherectomy device to either help
facilitate legional expansion or help cross legions, which are difficult to deal with. There is,
you know, a broad experience of laser and vein grass to be able to deep-olk,
lipidic material, the less the chances in the reflow, to reduce the thrombotic burden in ACS.
But for us, you're really focused on where we treat patients, which is an instant
restinosis chip in CTO, which is the main type of cases that we do in our program.
Dr. Croes, can you talk a little bit about your use of laser atherectomy in CTOs?
Yes, we actually acquired laser as a CTO tool. That's the reason we got it into our
complex PCI tool box. And I think, you know, the value there is when we have a CTO
lesion, which is difficult across laser can be transformed in terms of the experience you
allow you to get gear through, you know, softening proximal caps when you have a wire into
lesion or cross lesion. Really is, it's a main utility in our CTO practice. It's really
employed often as part of what we would call a wire across and gear won't go algorithm.
When you have a lesion, you can't get balloons or microcatheters through lesers really,
really helpful. You know, with our new leser, it warms up really quickly. But back in the old
day, we're like, all right, I've tried a microcatheter too. I'm not getting balloons across.
Let's get the leser and it's start to warm it up for five minutes because, you know,
then I'm ready to actually use it in time. And so the leser is helpful because when you
have a wire through lesion, it's often at calcium or dense fibroidic plaque problem.
And if you can't get balloons or catheters through it, you can't start to treat it.
And so by bringing a leser up to the plaque and actually actually, actually,
adding up it on the plaque, you're able to change the compliance. We're oftentimes
the leser itself will traverse through. But even if it doesn't, even if the leser doesn't
cross, a lot of times that acoustic mechanical energy, that mechanism of action to change
compliance allows you then to able to come in with a microcatheter, come in with a balloon,
and get that through and start to make some head-wank and across lesion. If you can't cross
the block, it's you can't treat it. And so, you know, the algorithm for that that will
discuss in the case that we have is really to improve backup, use a microcatheter, and leser
used to be pretty far down my list because it's so effective in our experience. I've actually bumped
up to the time when I'm starting to struggle, struggle, we're getting the leser set up,
we're ready to use it. And we'll actually, it's transformed, we have it in terms of
lines to cross lesions, which were previously difficult to get through.
Great. Do you maybe have a case example?
Yeah, so I have a case example of how we use leser in a CTO application.
And so this is a patient that was referred to us for treatment of a left-circum flex CTO. You can see
here that he had a long-standing RCA CTO for which he was actually asymptomatic. And when
he closed his circumflex, he was having terrible clash through engine. And so this looked us like
a pretty straightforward treatment. We had a seven-french radial system, which, you know, we figured
to give reasonable backup. And we went ahead and sort of took, you know, standard approach,
pilot 200 CTO wire, cross, pretty readily as you see here. And with the left-left collaterals,
we confirmed that we're in the lumen of the vessel. And we figured this would be relatively straightforward.
And I think surprisingly, our microcatheter would not cross. We tried to initially get across
with a turnpike LP microcatheter. You can see that as I'm pushing the catheter, I sort of, I
thought I stored the flur here. The guide is kicking out. The guide liner is kicking out. Really
nothing wants to get through it. And so in this particular example, we started to employ various
features of our wire across. And nothing will go algorithm. We changed our microcatheter. We changed
to a turnpike spiral catheter, which has screw threads on. And we were able to often screw that
through. And similarly, we're unable to get across. And so in this next maneuver, we just took a very
small balloon, a 1.5 millimeter balloon. And still, we tried to wedge it into the plaque to see if
you could make a little bit space. And still, I couldn't get anything to go through it. And so,
at this point, we're getting the laser in the room and getting it warmed up. There's a really,
I think, well, tread and sort of well, describe why a cross gear won't go algorithm for what you
do in these types of scenarios. The first thing is you can increase backup. We already had a guide
extended, we already had a seven-french guide. You can use things like anchor balloons and other
maneuvers that I want to review today. Try to add a microcatheter. I actually had tried to already
try small balloons with progressive inflation. I tried that. There's a CTO maneuver called grenade
a plastic. We actually purposely explored the balloon to try and change the compliance of the
lesion that way. We didn't try that in this particular example, but you can see readily in this list of
things as laser-athorectomy. And so, with this in mind, before we went to sort of all sorts of very
aggressive things that I want to review, like sub-enimal plaque modification. And other things you can
do to extend guide liners and pin them against the wall to get better support. We readily went
with a laser in this. And so, even after that little balloon inflation, we tried another microcatheter,
it still wouldn't cross. You can see here there's a 0.9 laser on 60 fluids and 60 rate
and very readily in real time in this floro store traverses through the lesion quite effectively.
And so, it's a nice example, I thought to show of how laser can be used to facilitate CTO,
PCI. After the laser cross, we actually had a TMI 3 flow and actually made a nice little channel.
And we did Ivys' guided stent in this example and got a nice final result here. And so,
I had this case example for our conversation today because I think it really shows
quite quickly the utility of laser-aths, part of an algorithm to deal with a known CTO problem,
which is when you get a wire cross, sometimes you can't get stuff to follow it.
Thank you so much Dr. Croce, I was an excellent case example. Along those lines,
can you talk about use of laser-athorectomy and treating instant restinosis?
Yeah, so as we talked about earlier, and we got laser as a CTO tool originally.
But we have a pretty busy referral practice for instant restinosis. We're one of the centers in
New England, which does break your therapy for multi-layer instant restinosis. And so, we see lots of
patients with failed stents and although we hit acquired laser as a CTO tool, we readily found
a application for in ISR cases. It has a lot of value there. I think the ability to oblate
tissue and soften make more compliant, calcific tissues, really one of the values of laser.
The acoustic mechanical energy, which is the mechanism of action we talked about, is really,
really helpful in terms of for under-expandage stents, which are surrounded and arrived at calcium.
It allows us to actually at the laser and fracture and change the compliance of that calcium,
so we can get stents to expand better. And so we use laser a lot in ISR cases,
helping to remediate, un-expand, and also to try and core out or oblate some of the new
animal tissue, which is leading to the stenosis that's creating chest pain and the reasons
why patients refer to us. Great. Do you happen to have a case example? Yeah, so I have, you know,
ironically, a CTO case, which is an instant case, we can go over it, sort of touches on
a both features of what we're here to talk about today. This is sort of a complicated presentation.
It's a 68-year-old gentleman who actually had two prior sternonemies. He had a bypass surgery in 2007,
and then a reduced sternonomy, you know, over 10 years later, to get an aortic valve replacement.
Normally, he had mild chronic reliance efficiency, and he was referred to us from the ER with
six out of 10 chest pain. He was actually a blowing snow using a snowblower in his driveway during one of
our Boston winters. His slight inferior lateral esthalivations had had a little bit of improvement in
a symptom to the VKG after getting some happenet nitro. So he came in and we did our diagnostic
and geography. You can see here that, you know, his left man doesn't supply too too much.
His circumflex is a CTO, which is an instant CTO. There's multiple views here in the RAO,
AP coddle, and LAO coddle. His Lima not surprisingly was patent as they often are. He can see it's a
good vessel going to get LED. And the culprit really was this, this vangraph, which actually
supplied blood to the circumflex system. And this vangraph, it actually been stented already,
and he had multiple layers of stented in the vangraph. You can see that here, and the vangraph
had a severe enastemotic legion, which was compromising flow. And so really we had a conversation,
you know, about what the best thing to do is, do we deal with treating the degenerated,
already stented vangraph with multiple layers of stented and laminated thrombus? You know,
we talked a little bit of utility of laser in vangraph treatment. It's possible you could take a
laser down and try to oblate some of this thrombotic material to facilitate a vangraph intervention.
But usually after a vangraph has been stented a bunch of times, or particularly in a case like this,
where there's some risk of dislumabilization that thrombus. We decided it would be better to treat
the native cTO. And he'd been doing well enough, you know, it really is a matter of that
having this particular slide of which is going to be faster, and then which is going to be more
durable. Rather than dealing with an enastemotic stenosis, already stented vangraph,
and all the clot we tended to want to focus on the native cTO PCI. For what was about a 13-year-old
left circumplex, left circumplex, instant-reestinosis cTO. So, you know, there's lots of ways you can
deal with cTO in stent. We always use dual injection when possible to highlight the target of where
we're going after. And so, in this particular case, we did dual injection angiography. You can
consider using it across boss, which is a way to deal with ISR, cTO, to try and stay in the stents.
This was firm enough in fibrodic enough. I didn't think that was going to be the best option.
And there is a retrograde option to come through the vangraph. If indeed,
we failed with the integrated wire escalation plan that we were considering. So, you can see,
readily here, we actually went out the side of the stent strut, which can often happen in ISR, cTO's
real little bit off target. We redirected and we actually had a marker wire down the graph,
the shows we were going. And eventually, we were able, you know, to get through a resistant
distal cap, revel about a time poking through, but eventually by taking a penetrating wire,
we achieved a lumenal position in the target area through the instent cTO shown here. We
exchanged for a workhorse wire, had a little bit of trouble getting catheter to the cross.
We actually facilitated that wire exchange with the caravel. Unfortunately, the tip broke off
in the legion. We left it there for the case and ended up snaring out at the end. But this sort of
told showed me as we were trying to get micro catheter to the cross and more than actually fractured
during that process. This was going to be a fairly resistant cTO to deal with.
We left the caravel tip on the wires you can see for here and really tried to dilate the
nc balloons which were unexpandable. The I-vis showed calcium in all 360 degrees of the
under expanded stance. This stance were only about 50% diameter expanded and a couple areas
had multi layer based on the I-vis. So this really followed the algorithm we talked about, you know,
wire across. I have to see what's, I have to see what's going on and really change your strategy
of what your plaque preparation is going to be based on the I-vis. We have a such a hard time
expanding this saw so much calcium. So I'm in extent to under expansion that readily for us
this becomes a laser atherectomy problem. So you went ahead and took a one-four laser, brought it
through there, did about eight separate runs in this area to try and change the compliance and
readily after that you can see your non-compliant balloons expanded quite well. So with this we were
able to place overlapping drug-leading stance that's shown here reconstructed this segment.
Got a very nice result and geographically had much improved expansion by I-vis. You can see the final
result is here. We actually then took a snare down and removed the tip of the caravel
with our henchier plastic wire and the final result is shown here on the right. And so
able to open the instant ISR, CTO and the setting of an ACS in a patient where we thought
the V-en graph would be less readily feasible unless less long-term durable if we treated it.
We're able to get in don't the 120 C-C-C-Za contrast and he went home the next day with baseline
renal function. So excellent case example. Thank you so much for showing that. I do have one more
question and then I'll have you go if you don't mind. Any new emerging data or science around Liza
Arthur or Therachdemy? Yes, there's been a publication recently in terms of the safety and
feasibility of using laser and all types of intervention. Several registries have been published recently
people have come out with a bunch of consensus papers to try and guide our field how to use this
tool. Liza is an older tool. It was probably first approved maybe when you were in high school
or you were in the computer and it's highly nice re-birth as we've re-learned how to use it in our
current armamentarium of treating complex C-AD patients. Our group was lucky enough to participate
in a single center study that we're about to publish. I'm really focusing on the use of laser
Athorectomy and instant re-synosis. So in 304 sequential ISR cases, we're Liza reviews and some
part of Liza reviews is slightly off-label in the study of contrast but you're not experienced
able to show excellent safety and excellent efficacy of Liza in terms of remediating about 70
percentage patients. We're multi-layer ISR difficulties span cases and so what we're able to show is
it in a quantitative cornering angiography assessment of multi-layer ISR patients. Treated
Liza are able to get market improvement in their angiographic percent damage denosis with an
excellent safety profile. Liza is a low rates of the section, no perforations attributed to Liza.
Even if you use it off a label a little bit like we did in this and really excellent ability
to facilitate treatment of complex C-AD patients. So we look forward to sharing that with the
community because I really think it speaks to the value of ISR patients that get treated with
Liza in terms of it facilitating workflow which is both efficient and gets expansion of
lesions which are difficult to dilate. Thank you so much Dr. Croce. I was very educational.
I know that I definitely learned a lot from those questions. Glad to be here today. I
appreciate it. If anybody wants to learn more about Liza or I'll correct me,
there's a pretty robust community of people that are employed in the practice. Reach out
but you know, let me know if I can help in any way. Awesome. Thank you so much.